All right guys in this video we're going to talk about divs and spans which are both HD female elements
are tags as well as I.D. and class attributes which are used for semantics they used to kind of separate
content.
They're also used for CSF styling which you're going to talk about in the next section.
So let's create a new file called 0 9 underscore and we'll just call it I.D. underscore.
Class done H T.
And we're going to put our structure our bar boilerplate in here and for our title we'll say div span
I.D. in class.
So we used divs before we used it to separate our kind of our labels and inputs in the form and where
we talked about forms.
So let's put a div in here and let's see.
This is gonna be the header of our website.
We have maybe an H1.
My Web site or maybe you have an image a logo image and then we'll put a paragraph that says it like
a some kind of slogan Just say a site about me.
Now since everything in this div pertains to the header I'm going to give this an I.D. of header okay.
Or maybe even main header because you could have multiple headers maybe you have an art you have articles
on the page and you have headers for the articles so let's call this the main header All right.
And then underneath that let's create a U L and let's give it some allies some list items and we'll
put some links inside here and let's say this go.
This is the home page link I'm going to copy this down twice will say this is the about link goes to
the about page just goes to it's a contact.
So it's this is a navigation menu so let's give this you all an idea of let's call it main now.
You can call it whatever you want.
Now let's say underneath the navigation we have an area that has some information about us or about
our page or whatever it may be.
So we'll have a div and let's give it an idea of about now.
Here I'm going to show you a very very helpful image trick.
OK so again it is installed with V.S. code and it allows us to do things faster so instead of typing
out I d equals what we can do is we can say div and we can put a just a number sign which represents
an I.D. the word about and then tab or enter and it puts it in for us and then to take it a step further
if it's a div like we could do this with with an H1 we could give it an idea of about like that but
if it's a div we don't even have to write the word div we can simply just put a number signed and then
about and then hit tab or enter and it will give us a div with the idea of about.
OK so nice little tip there and again you don't have to use it but it will make you write your hcm all
much faster.
So let's say in this about we have an h three which is a heading we'll say about and then maybe a paragraph
with some text will just generate some dummy text here.
Okay.
And then maybe under that div we have let's say an area for for our contact info.
And I know I haven't talked about spans or classes yet.
I'll get to that in a minute.
So let's create a div with the I.D. of contact.
And in here we have another heading.
Remember it's good it's good practice to not have more than one H one.
I don't think so yeah we do have an H1 which is in the header so every div here is using an h three
as a tile you could use an H2 and again you could use an H1 it's just good practice to just have one
on the page.
So let's put a well here we'll do some list items we'll put like address 50 Main Street Boston Mass
let's put another list item with a phone
and let's do another list item with an e-mail.
Just save me at something cool dot com.
OK.
And then finally maybe we have a footer so we'll have a div here with actually we can just do I.D. footer
and we'll have a paragraph and let's just say copyright 20 older 20 19 because it's the very end of
2018 right now.
All right.
So let's save this and take a look.
We'll open it with five server it's going to look very ugly because we have no CSX but it's structured
in a very common way.
So we have a header.
We have the navigation.
We have some some different sections about contact and then we have a footer at the bottom.
And we used I.D. for all of these.
Now when it comes to CSX week we can grab on to these ideas and we can styles these sections by their
I.D. but we also have something called classes now.
A lot of people get confused on when do I use an I.D. and when do I use a class.
And the reason for that is there is no functional difference.
Like they don't behave any differently.
You can style them the same exact way but it's a good practice to always have your I.D. be individual
meaning you're not going to have a main header I.D. anywhere else like you're not going to go down here
and have a main header I.D. you're not going to have another section on the page that has an idea of
about.
So basically just one per I.D. now a class you can repeat.
So let's say we wanted to style it like a border and a light gray background around the about and the
contact area we might have a class called card.
Actually I'm going to add a CSA style up here and don't worry if you don't know what any of this is
I'm gonna do this later.
I want to show you this later but I'm going to put a style that grabs on to the card class and we're
going to add a class of card to both of the divs of about and contact.
So whoops did that backwards one of two class equals card and then let's go down to the contact div
right here and also give that a class of card and let's save.
And now notice they both have the same styling so you can see the difference here I.D. their individual
to that that section but classes you can repeat.
So we can have as many cards as we want.
If I wanted the header to have that same style excuse me I could give that a class of card as well.
And it would get that styling.
OK.
So that's the biggest difference between I.D. and classes.
Now some people I mean everyone's different.
Some people don't even use I.D. they'll just use classes like instead of doing this.
You might see something like this like class Main header and card both in this you know both classes.
But I think that this is a better way to structure it.
OK.
But you'll come to find your own way of doing things.
But generally the most important thing is not to repeat I.D. on the same page at least.
All right.
So next let's talk about divs and spans.
We've used quite a bit of divs here to separate out our content and the main difference between a div
and a span as a device is a block level element.
It pushes the next thing down.
So let's say I had a style for let's let's let's do a class called enhance and let's say we want the
color to be yellow and we want the background color to be black.
And this is CSX I'm going to go over this all in the next section and let's say we wanted to add it
to a piece of text in this paragraph.
So if we use a div we say div class equals enhance and let's wrap this div let's put it like right here
and let's save it we get that styling but it knocks it on to the next it next line it basically goes
in between you know this line and this line this is a case where we want to use a span because a span
is an inline elements.
So let's grab this.
I'll highlight this div and do control D to grab the next one and just change them both to a span.
Guys save it.
And now notice that it's not it's not block level.
It just stays in its place and we can still add that styling.
So that's the difference between the span and a div.
For the most part you're going to be using divs but when you need it to be inline you want to use a
span.
Now each team of five when it was released it came out with something called semantic tags to better
to better layout our sections.
So for instance there's a header tag which we could use instead of having to use an I.D. we could use
the actual header tag.
There is something called the NAV tag we could use for navigation there's section tags for stuff like
this and we're gonna go over that soon.
But in the next video I want to just quickly cover entities OK which are little symbols we can use in
H T L for instance this copy right down here if we want to put a copyright symbol we can do Amber stamp
copy semicolon and if I go ahead and save that and now you see down here it actually gives us a little
copyright symbol.
So I want to talk a little bit about that in the next section before we move on to HCM all five semantic
tags.